why do we need database?
we need database to store,scale and analyze the data.
what is Database?
Database is a storage unit for certain data. Before the Databases, FMS(file manage system) used to store the data
Drawbacks of FMS: File management systems are costly, redundant, need physical space, less secure, querying is difficult

  Concepts in Databases:
    i. Data : The information stored in database such as text, images, videos, numbers etc..,
   ii. DBMS : it is a software that manages the databases by providing tools for creating, updating, deleting or querying the data in databases.
  iii. schema:  it is the structure of the database including the relationships between different entities
  iv. Query : A request to retrieve or modify the data in database

Types of Databases: Databases are divided into different types based on the way it stores the data
   i. Relational Databases:  These Databases stores the data in the form of tables and maintains well defined relations between the tables.  Eg: mySQL, oracle,MSSQL server,postgreSQL,SQL Lite 

  ii. Non- Relational Databases : These Databases are designed to handle large amounts of data which is unstructured or semi structured . Eg: MongoDB, cassandra, Redis

  The above databases also named as SQL and NoSQL Databases
   SQL is the language used by RDBMS to perform operations on Databases.(structured Query Language)
                SQL Databases                                                       NoSQL Databases

   SQL databases are designed for structured data              NoSQL databases are designed for
   with Predefined schema                                                   handling unstructured or semi 
                                                                                             structured data with flexible schema
    SQL databases use SQL for querying the DATA            NoSQL databases uses different QL 
                                                                                             such as mongoDB Query language
    user management systems, booking mangement             social media, ecommerce etc.., uses NoSQL
    systems etc.., uses SQL


Difference between SQL and MySQL ?
       SQL is the language used by RDBMS such as MySQL to perform database operations. SQL is a Query Language and MySql is DBMS


MYSQL Introduction:  MySQL is an open source relational database management sytsem that uses SQL to manage and manipulate data in Databases. MySQL is known for its reliability,performance, scalability and easy of use
           ---> open source
           --->High Performance
           --> Scalable
           ---> Secure

uses : Ecommerce , CMS, blogs etc..,
How to download and Install MySQL?
   i. goto website https://www.mysql.com/downloads/
  ii. click "mySQL community(GPL) downloads"
   iii. select "mySQL installer for windows" --> select second "download"

It will install mySQL community Server, mySQL workbench, mySQL shell
mySQL shells : it is CLI for mySQL
workbench: it is the GUI tool for mySQL



MySQL commands :
To create database, we can use commands 
     create database database_name
Delete the Database:
    drop database database_name





































