     ii. order by: it is used to sort the result of a query in ascending or descending order. Default order is ascending.
 write a query to print all teachers in staff table whose age is greater than 30 and arrange it according to teachers name alphabetical order
  select * from staff
where age>30
order by tname

Print all teachers according to their salries in descending order
select * from staff
order by salary desc;

iii. limit: it is used to print or display only certain number of rows
WAQ to display name and age and salary of lowest salried employee
select tname,age,salary
from staff
order by salary asc
limit 1;

iv. offset : it is used to display the output by skipping certain number of rows
WAQ to display all names, ages of staff except youngest staff
select * from staff
order by age asc
limit 5
offset 1;


WAQ to display name,age, salary of third highest salaried staff
select tname,salary
from staff
order by salary desc
limit 1
offset 2;

WAQ to display name,age of second oldest staff
select tname,age
from staff
order by age desc;
limit 1
offset 1

v. Group By :  The Group by clause is used to group the rows based on one or more columns. it is often used with agrregate functions like count(),sum(),avg() etc..,
     Agreegate Functions: These functions are used to perform mathematical operation on group of rows
      i. count(): count is used to count the number of rows in each group
       WAQ to print number of males and females in staff table
      ii. sum(): sum is used to calculate the sum of values in each group
      WAQ to print total salaries of male and female staff in staff table
      iii. avg() : avg is used to calculate the avaerage of values in each group
      WAQ to print average salaries of male and female staff in staff table
      iv. max(): max is used to print maximum value in a column
      v. min(): min is used to print minimum value in a column

   vi. having : it is used to filter after grouping or agrregating the data
   it is mostly used with conditions that are invovled agrregate functions
SELECT country, count(country) FROM Customers where country like 'U%' group by country  having count(country)>10;






























